Add first part of bottom sheet docs (#1203)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/bottomsheet/configuration.md

## States

The BottomSheet control provides a flexible state system that determines how much of the screen the component occupies. You can use predefined states or create custom ones to present content at different visibility levels.

### Predefined States

The control includes four built-in states with predefined heights:

* `Hidden` (default)&mdash;Represents a completely hidden bottom sheet.
* `Minimal`&mdash;Represents a minimal bottom sheet state with height `25%`.
* `Partial`&mdash;Represents a partial bottom sheet state with height `50%`.
* `Full`&mdash;Represents a full bottom sheet state with height `90%`.

### Setting States

You can specify the current state using the `State` property of type `BottomSheetState`:

```xaml
<telerik:RadBottomSheet x:Name="bottomSheet" 
                        State="Partial">
    <!-- Content -->
</telerik:RadBottomSheet>
```

### Custom States

Create custom states using the `BottomSheetState` class constructors:

* Using `BottomSheetLength`

```csharp
public BottomSheetState(string name, BottomSheetLength height)
```

> * Using `double value`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Using `double` value
```

---
title: Configuration
page_title: .NET MAUI BottomSheet Documentation - Configuration
description: Learn more about how to configure the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI BottomSheet control.
position: 3
slug: bottomsheet-configuration
---

# .NET MAUI BottomSheet Configuration

> The purpose of this help article is to show you how to configure the states and width of the Telerik .NET MAUI BottomSheet control.

Reviewer: Aim for a more direct and concise language.
```suggestion
The Telerik .NET MAUI BottomSheet control offers flexible configuration options for states, width, and visual elements. You can define custom states with specific heights, control the sheet's width using absolute or percentage values, and customize the draggable handle to match your application's design.
```

## States (Built-in Transitions)

> The Telerik UI for .NET MAUI BottomSheet control exposes predefined states (transitions). You can specify the state by using following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BottomSheet control provides four predefined states that determine how much of the screen the component occupies, allowing you to present content at different visibility levels from completely hidden to nearly full-screen. You can specify the state by using the following options:
```

* `CurrentState`(of type `BottomSheetState`) property. The property specifies the current state of the bottom sheet. The available options for `CurrentState` are:

> 	* `Hidden`(the default one)&mdash;Represents a hidden bottom sheet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	* `Hidden` (default)&mdash;Represents a hidden bottom sheet.
```

	* `Minimal`&mdash;Represents a minimal bottom sheet state with height `25%`.
	* `Partial`&mdash;Represents a partial bottom sheet state with height `50%`.
	* `Full`&mdash;Represents a full bottom sheet state with height `90%`.

The `BottomSheetState` class represents the state of a bottom sheet.

> The first instance of the class has as a parameters the name of the bottom sheet state and the height of the bottom sheet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first instance of the class takes the bottom sheet state name and its height as parameters.
```

```C#
public BottomSheetState(string name, BottomSheetSize height)
```

> The second instance of the class has as a parameters the name of the bottom sheet state and the height of the bottom sheet, and if the size parameter represents a percentage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second instance of the class takes three parameters: the name of the bottom sheet state, the height of the bottom sheet, and a flag indicating whether the height is a percentage.
```

```C#
public BottomSheetState(string name, double size, bool isPercentage = false)
```

> * Calling the [`GoToBottomSheetState(string name)` method]({%slug bottomsheet-methods%}). Where the `string name` is the name of the predefined sates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Calling the [`GoToBottomSheetState(string name)` method]({%slug bottomsheet-methods%}). Where the `string name` is the name of the predefined state.
```

	* `Hidden`&mdash;`HiddenStateName`.
	* `Minimal`&mdash;`StateName`.
	* `Partial`&mdash;`PartialStateName`.
	* `Full`&mdash;`FullStateName`.

Here is an example setting the predefined name of the state inside the `GoToBottomSheetState(string name)` method:

<snippet id='open-bottomsheet-view' />

> The `UseDefaultStates`(`bool`) property allows you to specify whether the control will generate the default states. The default value is `true`.

Reviewer: What does this mean in practice?

The BottomSheet provides a read-only collection&mdash;`States` of type `ObservableCollection<BottomSheetState>`. The collection contains the available sheet states for the bottom sheet.

> For a runnable example with setting the BottomSheet States, see the [SDKBrowser Demo Application]({%slug sdkbrowser-app%}) and go to **BottomSheet > Features** category.

## Width

> You can specify the width for the bottom sheet, by using the `BottomSheetWidth` (`struct` of type `BottomSheetSize`) property. You can set a percentage or an absolute value to the `BottomSheetWidth`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify the width for the bottom sheet by using the `BottomSheetWidth` (`struct` of type `BottomSheetSize`) property. You can set a percentage or an absolute value for the `BottomSheetWidth`.
```

> For a runnable example with setting the BottomSheet Width, see the [SDKBrowser Demo Application]({%slug sdkbrowser-app%}) and go to **BottomSheet > Features** category.

## Handle

The BottomSheet exposes a visual cue which indicates the control can be dragged. You can customize the handle by using the `HandleStyle` (`Style` with target type `BottomSheetHandle`) property.

> For more details review the [BottomSheet Handle Styling]({%slug bottomsheet-styling%}#handle-styling) article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, review the [BottomSheet Handle Styling]({%slug bottomsheet-styling%}#handle-styling) article.
```
